# AWSIM Labs BFH

Version: 2025.0.0

This project is a fork of the [_AWSIM Labs_](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/AWSIM-Labs) simulator for [_Autoware_](https://autoware.org/) created in and with [_Unity_](www.unity.com). 

_AWSIM-Labs-BFH_ was created as part of a project in the curriculum of the Bachelor in _Computer Science_ of the _School of Engineering and Computer Science_ of the [_Berner Fachhochschule_ / _Bern University of Applied Sciences_](https://www.bfh.ch/de/studium/bachelor/informatik/)  -  short: _BFH_ - in collaboration with the school's subdivision _Automotive Engineering_, in particular with their workgroup for _Automated Driving_.

This documentation provides instructions on how to setup and use the _AWSIM Labs BFH_ project together with _Autoware_.

If `AWSIM-Labs-BFH` is intended to be used together with _Autoware_, then it is highly recommended to make a [_Source Installation of Autoware_](autoware-installation.md) first, then install and setup the Unity project.

>To avoid ambiguity, the part of the project development for the >BFH project will be named _AWSIM-Labs-BFH_, the source project >will be called _AWSIM-Labs_. 
>
>Furthermore, in most cases where _AWSIM-Labs_ is mentioned, _AWSIM-Labs-BFH_ is included in the mention since it includes all functionality of _AWSIM-Labs_.
>
>For a better understanding of this documentation, please consult the [glossary](glossary.md) if necessary.

## Content
This documentation is distributed into multiple files.

In this file:
- [Scope and Aim of AWSIM-Labs-BFH](#scope-and-aim-of-awsim-labs-bfh)
- [Project Maintainance](#project-maintainance)
- [System Requirements](#system-requirements)

In additional files:
- [Installation of Autoware](autoware-intallation.md)
- [Installation of AWSIM-Labs-BFH](AWSIM-Labs-BFH-Unity-installation.md)
- [Glossary](glossary.md)

## Scope and Aim of AWSIM-Labs-BFH

Currently, the BFH's team for autonomous driving works with an [_Easymile EZ10 shuttle_](https://www.easymile.com/de/vehicle-solutions/ez10-passenger-shuttle) with _Autoware_.
_AWSIM-Labs-BFH_ aims to deliver the basis for a simulation environment to provide a collaborative workspace for the following tasks:
- Create a _Digital Twin Simulation_ capable of replicating all the sensors installed on the Easymile shuttle
- Simulate an urban or semi-urban environments, with different types of roads, other traffic participants and other obstacles, as well as different weather conditions.
- Validate and test autonomous driving algorithms in a virtual environment before deploying them in real-world conditions.
- Use inputs generated by the _Digital Twin_ inside the simulated Environment, for machine learning tasks such as Reinforcement Learning, in order to train the shuttles capabilities.

Out of the box, _AWSIM-Labs_ provides the possibility to satisfy almost all of the desired tasks. 

The Unity project already contains the an urban scene that is fully compatible with a provided `HD map` to be launched in autoware. It also contains a random traffic generator, that creates `NPC vehicles`, as well as `NPC pedestrians`.

Furthermore, _AWSIM Labs_ already contains interfaces for virtualizing camera and LIDAR sensors.

In order to apply the simulator to the _Easymile EZ10 shuttle_, the project was expanded to contain its _Digital Twin_ (Blender model and Unity game object) with all the sensors used for automated driving. 

In order to train the _Easymile EZ10 shuttle_ with input from its _Digital Twin_, a suitable for simulated environment was added to the project. More about this can be read in this [document](reinforcement-learning.md).


## Project Maintainance

To encapsulate the modifications and to guaratee effortless updates of _AWSIM-Labs-BFH_, its contribution to _AWSIM-Labs_ is contained inside the directory `Assets/BFH`. In addition to that, the actual main branch of _AWSIM-Labs-BFH_ is `bfh`.
The literal `main` branch will not reflect any development made in `AWSIM-Labs-BFH`. Further information on repository management and project update can be found [here](project-maintainance.md).

## System Requirements

| Required Specs |  |
| --- | ---|
| CPU | Ubuntu 22.04|
| OS | 6c12t or higher|
| GPU | RTX 2080 or higher|
| Nvidia Driver | 560 |

>**Note:**<br>
>Due to some incompatibility with the Nvidia driver 545, `AWSIM-Labs-BFH` is further developed with the Nvidia driver 560, in difference to `AWSIM-Labs`, that uses the 545 version of the driver.

